Rewrite (#2)
mihaibudiu/sigmod-rh: implementation.tex

\section{Implementation}\label{sec:implementation}

%\subsection{Practicality and limitations}

While \dbsp is a theoretical construct, we want to emphasize that the
assumptions of the model do not detract from its practicality.  In
fact, we have built an open-source implementation of \dbsp as a

> runtime in Rust~\cite{dbsp-crate}; we have also built a compiler from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fact, we have built an open-source implementation of \dbsp in Rust~\cite{dbsp-crate}; we have also built a compiler from
```

Reviewer: alternatively, we could say "as a query engine written in Rust"

SQL to \dbsp~\cite{sql-to-dbsp-compiler}.  This compiler handles
essentially the entire SQL language\footnote{The only construct which
is not handled efficiently is ORDER BY without LIMIT.}.  The compiler
generates execution plans for incrementally maintaining any number of
views defined in SQL.

Incremental computation is not free.  It is in fact a trade-off
between time and space.  We have to consider both the time and the
space used by each operator.  While many database operations can be
done using work proportional to the size of the changes, and no
storage overhead, several classes of database operations, such as
joins, ``distinct'', and aggregates can be implemented efficiently
only using additional storage in the form of \emph{indexes}.  The size
of these indexes is proportional to the size of the total data in the
database (and not just to the size of the changes) --- and since some

> indexes are over intermediate data structures, they can even exceed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
indexes are over intermediate relations, they can even exceed
```

the size of the original database.

Another limitation of incremental computation is the startup cost.
When a new view is installed, the IVM system must compute the first
change, which is the same as the initial contents of the view.  This
computation is in general proportional to the size of the whole
database.  This is known as the ``backfill'' problem.  \dbsp also does
not allow changes the definition of the views or to the schema of the

> data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
database.  This is known as the ``backfill'' problem.  Likewise, changes to the definition of a view or to the data schema generally require computing affected subqueries from scratch.
```

\dbsp is an ``eager'' or ``top-down'' execution model: it constantly
maintains the entire contents of any number of views, even if no one
really wants to inspect the views.  In contrast, ``lazy'' or
``bottom-up'' models only build part of the views when the views are
inspected.  Such models have the potential to be more efficient.
Eager models can be converted into lazy ones if something is known
about the class of operations that will be executed against the views.
But this is in essence just another time-space trade-off.

> \dbsp should ideally be integrated in a traditional database and
> offered by the database as a service.  The ``right'' interface for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An incremental view maintenance system like \dbsp can in principle be integrated as a service into a traditional database. The ``right'' interface for
```
